docs/content/2.features/1.server-api.md, before:

---
title: Server API
---

# Server API

## API routes

The server API routes exposed by default are:

- `POST /api/bedita/auth` to authenticate user
- `/api/bedita/auth/logout` to logout user
- `POST /api/bedita/auth/reset` to request reset user password
- `PATCH /api/bedita/auth/change` to change password after reset request
- `POST /api/bedita/auth/optout` to delete user
- `GET /api/bedita/*` to forward GET requests to BEdita API

## Utils

There are some utils functions auto imported in server context.

### `beditaApiClient`

`beditaApiClient(event: H3Event): Promise<BEditaApiClient>`{lang=ts}

It resolves with the BEdita API client from [@atlasconsulting/bedita-sdk](https://github.com/atlasconsulting/bedita-sdk-js).

```ts [/server/api/example.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  const client = await beditaApiClient(event);
  const response = await client.get('/documents');

  return response.data;
});
```

### `handleBeditaApiError`

`handleBeditaApiError(event: H3Event, error: AxiosError | H3Error | any): Promise<ApiResponseBodyError>`{lang=ts}

It helps to handle BEdita API errors setting response status and payload.

```ts [/server/api/example.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  try {
    const client = await beditaApiClient(event);
    const response = await client.get('/documents');

    return response.data;
  } catch (error) {
    return handleBeditaApiError(event, error);
  }
});
```

### `recaptchaVerifyToken`

`recaptchaVerifyToken(token: string, action: string, throwError = true): Promise<boolean>`{lang=ts}

It needs to verify recapctha token sent by client. By default it throws a `400 Bad Request` if token validation fails.

```ts [/server/api/example.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  const body = await readBody(event);
  await recaptchaVerifyToken(body?.recaptcha_token, 'my-action');
  // do other stuff
});
```

### `getSessionConfig`

`getSessionConfig(): SessionConfig`{lang=ts}

Get the actual session configuration. It is useful to retrieve session.

```ts [/server/api/example.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  const session = await useSession(event, getSessionConfig());
  // do stuff with session
});
```

### `filterUserDataToStore`

`filterUserDataToStore(data: UserAuth): UserDataStore`{lang=ts}

Filter user data and return a minimum data. Used to store in session cookie a miminal set of data.

```ts [/server/api/example.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  try {
    const client = await beditaApiClient(event);
    const response = await client.get('/auth/user');

    return filterUserDataToStore(response?.data);
  } catch (error) {
    return handleBeditaApiError(event, error);
  }
});
```

Commit message:

docs: add update user documentation

docs/content/2.features/1.server-api.md, after:

---
title: Server API
---

# Server API

## API routes

The server API routes exposed by default are:

- `POST /api/bedita/auth` to authenticate user
- `/api/bedita/auth/logout` to logout user
- `PATCH /api/bedita/auth/user` to update authenticated user attributes as name, surname, etc...
- `POST /api/bedita/auth/reset` to request reset user password
- `PATCH /api/bedita/auth/change` to change password after reset request
- `POST /api/bedita/auth/optout` to delete user
- `GET /api/bedita/*` to forward GET requests to BEdita API

## Utils

There are some utils functions auto imported in server context.

### `beditaApiClient`

`beditaApiClient(event: H3Event): Promise<BEditaApiClient>`{lang=ts}

It resolves with the BEdita API client from [@atlasconsulting/bedita-sdk](https://github.com/atlasconsulting/bedita-sdk-js).

```ts [/server/api/example.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  const client = await beditaApiClient(event);
  const response = await client.get('/documents');

  return response.data;
});
```

### `handleBeditaApiError`

`handleBeditaApiError(event: H3Event, error: AxiosError | H3Error | any): Promise<ApiResponseBodyError>`{lang=ts}

It helps to handle BEdita API errors setting response status and payload.

```ts [/server/api/example.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  try {
    const client = await beditaApiClient(event);
    const response = await client.get('/documents');

    return response.data;
  } catch (error) {
    return handleBeditaApiError(event, error);
  }
});
```

### `recaptchaVerifyToken`

`recaptchaVerifyToken(token: string, action: string, throwError = true): Promise<boolean>`{lang=ts}

It needs to verify recapctha token sent by client. By default it throws a `400 Bad Request` if token validation fails.

```ts [/server/api/example.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  const body = await readBody(event);
  await recaptchaVerifyToken(body?.recaptcha_token, 'my-action');
  // do other stuff
});
```

### `getSessionConfig`

`getSessionConfig(): SessionConfig`{lang=ts}

Get the actual session configuration. It is useful to retrieve session.

```ts [/server/api/example.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  const session = await useSession(event, getSessionConfig());
  // do stuff with session
});
```

### `filterUserDataToStore`

`filterUserDataToStore(data: UserAuth): UserDataStore`{lang=ts}

Filter user data and return a minimum data. Used to store in session cookie a miminal set of data.

```ts [/server/api/example.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  try {
    const client = await beditaApiClient(event);
    const response = await client.get('/auth/user');

    return filterUserDataToStore(response?.data);
  } catch (error) {
    return handleBeditaApiError(event, error);
  }
});
```
