docs/content/1.getting-started/2.configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

Module `nuxt-bedita`can be customized throught the `bedita` property of `nuxt.config`.

::code-group
  ```ts [Simple nuxt.config.ts]
  export default defineNuxtConfig({
    modules: [
      '@atlasconsulting/nuxt-bedita',
    ],
    bedita: {
      apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api.localhost',
      apiKey: '1a2bc3d4',
      session: {
        name: 'nuxt-bedita',
        secret: '<at-least-32-chars-secret-string>',
      },
    },
  })
  ```

  ```ts [Complete nuxt.config.ts]
  export default defineNuxtConfig({
    modules: [
      '@atlasconsulting/nuxt-bedita',
    ],
    bedita: {
      apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api.localhost',
      apiKey: '1a2bc3d4',
      auth: {
        global: true,
        required: false,
        publicRoutes: [],
        unauthenticatedRedirect: '/sign-in',
        rolesGuard: {},
        sessionUserProps: [],
      },
      endpoints: ['auth'],
      projects: {
        one: {
          apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api-one.localhost',
          apiKey: 's9suff64h',
        },
        two: {
          apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api-two.localhost',
          apiKey: 'plog8uhcft',
        },
      },
      proxyEndpoints: [
        {
          path: '*',
          methods: ['GET'],
        }
      ],
      recaptcha: {
        enabled: true,
        siteKey: 'recaptcha-v3-site-key',
        secretKey: 'recaptcha-v3-secret-key',
        hideBadge: false,
        useRecaptchaNet: true,
      },
      replaceTranslations: true,
      resetPasswordPath: '/reset-password',
      session: {
        name: 'nuxt-bedita',
        secret: '<at-least-32-chars-secret-string>',
      },
    },
  })
  ```
::

::alert{type="success"}
You can also take advantage of **env variables** prefixed with `NUXT_` to configure some module properties by environment instead of edit the `bedita` property.
::


### `apiBaseUrl` :badge[required]{type="warning"}

The BEdita API base URL.

| **Type** | **Default** | **Options** | **Env**                    |
|----------|-------------|-------------|----------------------------|
| `string` | -           | -           | `NUXT_BEDITA_API_BASE_URL` |


### `apiKey` :badge[required]{type="warning"}

The BEdita API key.

| **Type** | **Default** | **Options** | **Env**               |
|----------|-------------|-------------|-----------------------|
| `string` | -           | -           | `NUXT_BEDITA_API_KEY` |


### `auth`

Configure user auth stuff as the [`auth` middleware](/features/middleware) that is responsible for fill the user state reading from session and to protect routes too.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Options</th>
      <th>Env</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>Object</code></td>
      <td>
        <pre>
auth: {
  global: true,
  required: false,
  publicRoutes: [],
  unauthenticatedRedirect: '/sign-in',
  rolesGuard: {},
  sessionUserProps: [],
},
        </pre>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><code>global</code>: if auth middleware has to be installed as global middleware [<b>default</b> <code>true</code>]</li>
          <li>
            <code>required</code>: if authentication is required in the entire app [<b>default</b> <code>false</code>].<br>
            If it is <code>true</code> an user unauthenticated will be redirect to the route specified in <code>unauthenticatedRedirect</code> property.
          </li>
          <li><code>publicRoutes</code>: list of public routes not affected by authentication check [<b>default</b> <code>[]</code>]</li>
          <li><code>unauthenticatedRedirect</code>: a route to redirect unauthenticated users [<b>default</b> <code>/sign-in</code>]</li>
          <li>
            <code>rolesGuard</code>: role based route rules to forbid access to some routes for users that don't have some BEdita roles [<b>default</b> <code>{}</code>]
          </li>
          <li>
            <code>sessionUserProps</code>: additional user properties (beyond <code>id</code>, <code>name</code>, <code>surname</code>, <code>username</code>, <code>email</code>, <code>roles</code>) saved in session when authentication happens. They are available getting <code>user</code> from <code>useBeditaAuth</code> composable [<b>default</b> <code>[]</code>]
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


### `endpoints`

List of internal API endpoints' groups enabled.

Two endpoints' groups are available:

* `auth` enable all endpoints related to user autentication
  - `POST /api/bedita/auth` user authenitcation
  - `/api/bedita/auth/logout` user logout
  - `POST /api/bedita/auth/reset` request of password reset
  - `PATCH /api/bedita/auth/change` change password
  - `POST /api/bedita/auth/optout` user opt-out
* `signup` enable all endpoints related to signup flow
  - `POST /api/bedita/signup` user signup
  - `POST /api/bedita/signup/activation` user signup activation

| **Type** | **Default**          | **Options**       | **Env** |
|----------|----------------------|-------------------|---------|
| `Array`  | `['auth', 'signup']` | `auth`, `signup`  | -       |



### `projects`

Used to setup different API configuration. For example:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@atlasconsulting/nuxt-bedita',
  ],
  bedita: {
    projects: {
      one: {
        apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api-one.localhost',
        apiKey: 's9suff64h',
      },
      two: {
        apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api-two.localhost',
        apiKey: 'plog8uhcft',
      },
    },
  },
})
```

In the app you can call a special endpoint `/api/bedita/_project` to set the project to use.

```ts
await $fetch('/api/bedita/_project', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: { project: 'two'},
})
```

Once setup project every call to BEdita API will use the project `two` configuration.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Options</th>
      <th>Env</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>Object</code></td>
      <td>
        <code>
projects: Record &lt;string, BeditaProjectConf&gt;
        </code>
      </td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>NUXT_BEDITA_PROJECTS</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### `proxyEndpoints`

Use this property to enable/disable API proxy to BEdita API. It is configurable per endpoint.

By default all `GET` requests are proxied to BEdita API (if not found in routing context), for example a request in the app to `/api/bedita/documents` will be proxied to `GET /documents` BEdita API.

It is possible to limit the requests proxied defining the endpoints allowed.
For example the following configuration enable `GET /api/bedita/events` and `GET /api/bedita/news` while other `GET /api/bedita/<other-bedita-endpoint>` request will return a `404 Not Found`.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@atlasconsulting/nuxt-bedita',
  ],
  bedita: {
    proxyEndpoints: [
      {
        path: '/events',
        methods: ['GET'],
      },
      {
        path: '/news',
        methods: ['GET'],
      }
    ],
  },
})
```

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Options</th>
      <th>Env</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>Array</code></td>
      <td>
        <pre>
proxyEndpoints: [
  {
    path: '*', // all endpoints allowed
    methods: ['GET'], // HTTP methods allowed
  },
]
        </pre>
      </td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


### `recaptcha`

[reCAPTCHA v3](https://developers.google.com/recaptcha/docs/v3) can be enabled to protect login, signup and other actions that require it. **By default it is disabled**.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Options</th>
      <th>Env</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>Object</code></td>
      <td>
        <pre>
recaptcha: {
  enabled: false,
  hideBadge: false,
  useRecaptchaNet: false,
},
        </pre>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><code>enabled</code>: enable/disable reCAPTCHA [<b>default</b> <code>false</code>]</li>
          <li><code>siteKey</code>: the reCAPTCHA site key</li>
          <li><code>secretKey</code>: the reCAPTCHA secret key</li>
          <li><code>hideBadge</code>: enable/<a href="https://developers.google.com/recaptcha/docs/faq#id-like-to-hide-the-recaptcha-badge.-what-is-allowed" target="_blank">disable</a> reCAPTCHA badge [<b>default</b> <code>false</code>]</li>
          <li><code>useRecaptchaNet</code>: <a href="https://developers.google.com/recaptcha/docs/faq#does-recaptcha-use-cookies" target="_blank">enable</a>/disable the use of recaptcha.net domain instead of google.com [<b>default</b> <code>false</code>]</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><code>NUXT_PUBLIC_RECAPTCHA_ENABLED</code></li>
          <li><code>NUXT_PUBLIC_RECAPTCHA_SITE_KEY</code></li>
          <li><code>NUXT_BEDITA_RECAPTCHA_SECRET_KEY</code></li>
          <li><code>NUXT_PUBLIC_RECAPTCHA_HIDE_BADGE</code></li>
          <li><code>NUXT_PUBLIC_RECAPTCHA_USE_RECAPTCHA_NET</code></li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


### `replaceTranslations`

Configure BEdita client to replace in the API response the main language attributes of BEdita objects with translated fields requested via `lang` query string.

With this option enabled you can always refer to main objects attributes to get the requested translation.

Example:

```http
GET /api/bedita/documents
```

will returns `documents` with attributes in the main language.

```http
GET /api/bedita/documents?lang=it
```

will returns `documents` with attributes in the Italian language, if exists.

| **Type**  | **Default** | **Options** | **Env** |
|-----------|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `boolean` | false       | -           | -       |


### `session` :badge[required]{type="warning"}

Contain session configuration as the session name and session secret used to encrypt session.
The session take advantage of [unjs/h3 sessions](https://github.com/unjs/h3?tab=readme-ov-file#session) storing values in a cookie sealed with the session secret.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Options</th>
      <th>Env</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>Object</code></td>
      <td>
        <pre>
session: {
  name: 'bedita',
  secret: '',
},
        </pre>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><code>name</code>: session name corresponding to session cookie [<b>default</b> <code>bedita</code>]</li>
          <li><code>secret</code>: session secret (at least 32 chars) used to encrypt session in cookie</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><code>NUXT_BEDITA_SESSION_NAME</code></li>
          <li><code>NUXT_BEDITA_SESSION_SECRET</code></li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

feat!: Allow to configure proxy endpoints with regexp (#37)
* feat: handle endpoint proxy with regexp conf

* docs: update proxy endpoint conf

* chore: ensure object key exists

docs/content/1.getting-started/2.configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

Module `nuxt-bedita`can be customized throught the `bedita` property of `nuxt.config`.

::code-group
  ```ts [Simple nuxt.config.ts]
  export default defineNuxtConfig({
    modules: [
      '@atlasconsulting/nuxt-bedita',
    ],
    bedita: {
      apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api.localhost',
      apiKey: '1a2bc3d4',
      session: {
        name: 'nuxt-bedita',
        secret: '<at-least-32-chars-secret-string>',
      },
    },
  })
  ```

  ```ts [Complete nuxt.config.ts]
  export default defineNuxtConfig({
    modules: [
      '@atlasconsulting/nuxt-bedita',
    ],
    bedita: {
      apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api.localhost',
      apiKey: '1a2bc3d4',
      auth: {
        global: true,
        required: false,
        publicRoutes: [],
        unauthenticatedRedirect: '/sign-in',
        rolesGuard: {},
        sessionUserProps: [],
      },
      endpoints: ['auth'],
      projects: {
        one: {
          apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api-one.localhost',
          apiKey: 's9suff64h',
        },
        two: {
          apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api-two.localhost',
          apiKey: 'plog8uhcft',
        },
      },
      proxyEndpoints: [
        {
          path: '*',
          methods: ['GET'],
        }
      ],
      recaptcha: {
        enabled: true,
        siteKey: 'recaptcha-v3-site-key',
        secretKey: 'recaptcha-v3-secret-key',
        hideBadge: false,
        useRecaptchaNet: true,
      },
      replaceTranslations: true,
      resetPasswordPath: '/reset-password',
      session: {
        name: 'nuxt-bedita',
        secret: '<at-least-32-chars-secret-string>',
      },
    },
  })
  ```
::

::alert{type="success"}
You can also take advantage of **env variables** prefixed with `NUXT_` to configure some module properties by environment instead of edit the `bedita` property.
::


### `apiBaseUrl` :badge[required]{type="warning"}

The BEdita API base URL.

| **Type** | **Default** | **Options** | **Env**                    |
|----------|-------------|-------------|----------------------------|
| `string` | -           | -           | `NUXT_BEDITA_API_BASE_URL` |


### `apiKey` :badge[required]{type="warning"}

The BEdita API key.

| **Type** | **Default** | **Options** | **Env**               |
|----------|-------------|-------------|-----------------------|
| `string` | -           | -           | `NUXT_BEDITA_API_KEY` |


### `auth`

Configure user auth stuff as the [`auth` middleware](/features/middleware) that is responsible for fill the user state reading from session and to protect routes too.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Options</th>
      <th>Env</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>Object</code></td>
      <td>
        <pre>
auth: {
  global: true,
  required: false,
  publicRoutes: [],
  unauthenticatedRedirect: '/sign-in',
  rolesGuard: {},
  sessionUserProps: [],
},
        </pre>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><code>global</code>: if auth middleware has to be installed as global middleware [<b>default</b> <code>true</code>]</li>
          <li>
            <code>required</code>: if authentication is required in the entire app [<b>default</b> <code>false</code>].<br>
            If it is <code>true</code> an user unauthenticated will be redirect to the route specified in <code>unauthenticatedRedirect</code> property.
          </li>
          <li><code>publicRoutes</code>: list of public routes not affected by authentication check [<b>default</b> <code>[]</code>]</li>
          <li><code>unauthenticatedRedirect</code>: a route to redirect unauthenticated users [<b>default</b> <code>/sign-in</code>]</li>
          <li>
            <code>rolesGuard</code>: role based route rules to forbid access to some routes for users that don't have some BEdita roles [<b>default</b> <code>{}</code>]
          </li>
          <li>
            <code>sessionUserProps</code>: additional user properties (beyond <code>id</code>, <code>name</code>, <code>surname</code>, <code>username</code>, <code>email</code>, <code>roles</code>) saved in session when authentication happens. They are available getting <code>user</code> from <code>useBeditaAuth</code> composable [<b>default</b> <code>[]</code>]
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


### `endpoints`

List of internal API endpoints' groups enabled.

Two endpoints' groups are available:

* `auth` enable all endpoints related to user autentication
  - `POST /api/bedita/auth` user authenitcation
  - `/api/bedita/auth/logout` user logout
  - `POST /api/bedita/auth/reset` request of password reset
  - `PATCH /api/bedita/auth/change` change password
  - `POST /api/bedita/auth/optout` user opt-out
* `signup` enable all endpoints related to signup flow
  - `POST /api/bedita/signup` user signup
  - `POST /api/bedita/signup/activation` user signup activation

| **Type** | **Default**          | **Options**       | **Env** |
|----------|----------------------|-------------------|---------|
| `Array`  | `['auth', 'signup']` | `auth`, `signup`  | -       |



### `projects`

Used to setup different API configuration. For example:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@atlasconsulting/nuxt-bedita',
  ],
  bedita: {
    projects: {
      one: {
        apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api-one.localhost',
        apiKey: 's9suff64h',
      },
      two: {
        apiBaseUrl: 'http://bedita-api-two.localhost',
        apiKey: 'plog8uhcft',
      },
    },
  },
})
```

In the app you can call a special endpoint `/api/bedita/_project` to set the project to use.

```ts
await $fetch('/api/bedita/_project', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: { project: 'two'},
})
```

Once setup project every call to BEdita API will use the project `two` configuration.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Options</th>
      <th>Env</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>Object</code></td>
      <td>
        <code>
projects: Record &lt;string, BeditaProjectConf&gt;
        </code>
      </td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>NUXT_BEDITA_PROJECTS</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### `proxyEndpoints`

Use this property to enable/disable API proxy to BEdita API. It is configurable per endpoint.

By default all `GET` requests at `/api/bedita` except `/api/bedita/users` and `/api/bedita/profiles` are proxied to BEdita API (if not found in routing context), for example a request in the app to `/api/bedita/documents` will be proxied to `GET /documents` BEdita API.

It is possible to limit the requests proxied defining the endpoints allowed.
For example the following configuration enable `GET /api/bedita/events` and `GET /api/bedita/news` while other `GET /api/bedita/<other-bedita-endpoint>` request will return a `404 Not Found`.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@atlasconsulting/nuxt-bedita',
  ],
  bedita: {
    proxyEndpoints: [
      {
        path: '/events',
        methods: ['GET'],
      },
      {
        path: '/news',
        methods: ['GET'],
      }
    ],
  },
})
```

Another way is using the option `regExp` to define a regular expression to test the URL path.
The example below is equivalent to that above:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@atlasconsulting/nuxt-bedita',
  ],
  bedita: {
    proxyEndpoints: [
      {
        regExp: '^/(events|news).*$',
        methods: ['GET'],
      },
    ],
  },
})
```

::alert{type="warning"}
Take care that the value of `regExp` **must be a string** as you would pass to [`RegExp()` constructor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp).
::

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Options</th>
      <th>Env</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>Array</code></td>
      <td>
        <pre>
proxyEndpoints: [
  {
    regExp: '^/(?!users|profiles).*$', // all endpoints except `users` and `profiles` are allowed
    methods: ['GET'], // HTTP methods allowed
  },
]
        </pre>
      </td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


### `recaptcha`

[reCAPTCHA v3](https://developers.google.com/recaptcha/docs/v3) can be enabled to protect login, signup and other actions that require it. **By default it is disabled**.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Options</th>
      <th>Env</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>Object</code></td>
      <td>
        <pre>
recaptcha: {
  enabled: false,
  hideBadge: false,
  useRecaptchaNet: false,
},
        </pre>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><code>enabled</code>: enable/disable reCAPTCHA [<b>default</b> <code>false</code>]</li>
          <li><code>siteKey</code>: the reCAPTCHA site key</li>
          <li><code>secretKey</code>: the reCAPTCHA secret key</li>
          <li><code>hideBadge</code>: enable/<a href="https://developers.google.com/recaptcha/docs/faq#id-like-to-hide-the-recaptcha-badge.-what-is-allowed" target="_blank">disable</a> reCAPTCHA badge [<b>default</b> <code>false</code>]</li>
          <li><code>useRecaptchaNet</code>: <a href="https://developers.google.com/recaptcha/docs/faq#does-recaptcha-use-cookies" target="_blank">enable</a>/disable the use of recaptcha.net domain instead of google.com [<b>default</b> <code>false</code>]</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><code>NUXT_PUBLIC_RECAPTCHA_ENABLED</code></li>
          <li><code>NUXT_PUBLIC_RECAPTCHA_SITE_KEY</code></li>
          <li><code>NUXT_BEDITA_RECAPTCHA_SECRET_KEY</code></li>
          <li><code>NUXT_PUBLIC_RECAPTCHA_HIDE_BADGE</code></li>
          <li><code>NUXT_PUBLIC_RECAPTCHA_USE_RECAPTCHA_NET</code></li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


### `replaceTranslations`

Configure BEdita client to replace in the API response the main language attributes of BEdita objects with translated fields requested via `lang` query string.

With this option enabled you can always refer to main objects attributes to get the requested translation.

Example:

```http
GET /api/bedita/documents
```

will returns `documents` with attributes in the main language.

```http
GET /api/bedita/documents?lang=it
```

will returns `documents` with attributes in the Italian language, if exists.

| **Type**  | **Default** | **Options** | **Env** |
|-----------|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `boolean` | false       | -           | -       |


### `session` :badge[required]{type="warning"}

Contain session configuration as the session name and session secret used to encrypt session.
The session take advantage of [unjs/h3 sessions](https://github.com/unjs/h3?tab=readme-ov-file#session) storing values in a cookie sealed with the session secret.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Default</th>
      <th>Options</th>
      <th>Env</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>Object</code></td>
      <td>
        <pre>
session: {
  name: 'bedita',
  secret: '',
},
        </pre>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><code>name</code>: session name corresponding to session cookie [<b>default</b> <code>bedita</code>]</li>
          <li><code>secret</code>: session secret (at least 32 chars) used to encrypt session in cookie</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><code>NUXT_BEDITA_SESSION_NAME</code></li>
          <li><code>NUXT_BEDITA_SESSION_SECRET</code></li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
